Add quick reference page for auto release to pypi and zenodo (#76)
Imageomics/Collaborative-distributed-science-guide: docs/wiki-guide/GitHub-PyPI-Zenodo-Integration.md

!!! warning
    Before setting a release, please review the [Digital Product Policy](About-Digital-Product-Policies.md) and check your repository against the [Code Repo Checklist](Code-Checklist.md).

!!! note
    Steps marked with an `*` need only be completed once (the first time this is set up).

## Before Generating a Release

### Set version in...

- `__about__.py` file
    - Version should be set *dynamically* in the `pyproject.toml` from this file.*
- [`CITATION.cff`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#citation-templates)
- [`.zenodo.json`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#zenodo-metadata)

### Add/Update Citation and Zenodo Metadata Files 

Review or create both a [`CITATION.cff`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#citation) and [`.zenodo.json`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#zenodo-metadata) file following guide instructions. Be sure to include 

!!! tip "Pro tip"

>     Add this [test to validate the Zenodo metatdata file](https://github.com/Imageomics/Collaborative-distributed-science-guide/blob/main/.github/workflows/validate-zenodo.yaml).* It will run whenever the `.zenodo.json` or workflow file are edited, ensuring that your Zenodo integration will run smoothly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Add this [test to validate the Zenodo metatdata file](https://github.com/Imageomics/Collaborative-distributed-science-guide/blob/main/.github/workflows/validate-zenodo.yaml). It will run whenever the `.zenodo.json` or workflow file are edited, ensuring that your Zenodo integration will run smoothly.
```

Before release, ensure that...

- All authors are included and appropriately ordered.
    - This list may or may not change, and may differ from an associated paper author list, as discussed in the [Digital Product Lifecycle](Digital-Product-Lifecycle.md#exploration-phase) and the [Imageomics Author Guide](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GwlCukfoQPL8JI2yyWRD3g4uiMTO3tlGNE_qeb_xBCs/edit?usp=sharing).
- All project keywords are listed, using quotes for multi-word tags.
- The release date in both files is correct.

    !!! info

>         This should be added in a PR as the last commit before a release, but check that the date matches, since these PRs sometimes are not merged on the day they are created.

Author: ```suggestion
        This should be added in a PR as the last commit before a release, but check that the date matches, since these PRs may not necessarily be merged on the same day they are created.
```
Revising with @hlapp's suggestion here too.

=== "First Release"

    ```Markdown
    Set version in... 
        - [ ] `__about__.py` file (the only repeated PyPI update).
            - Version should be set *dynamically* in the `pyproject.toml` from this file.*
        - [ ] [`CITATION.cff`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#citation-templates).
        - [ ] [`.zenodo.json`](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#zenodo-metadata).
    
    Add/Update the [citation](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#citation) and [Zenodo metadata](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#zenodo-metadata) files. Ensure that...
        - [ ] All authors are included and appropriately ordered.
            - This list may or may not change, and may differ from an associated paper author list, as discussed in the [Digital Product Lifecycle](Digital-Product-Lifecycle.md#exploration-phase) and the [Imageomics Author Guide](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1GwlCukfoQPL8JI2yyWRD3g4uiMTO3tlGNE_qeb_xBCs/edit?usp=sharing).
        - [ ] All project keywords are listed, using quotes for multi-word tags.
        - [ ] The release date in both files is correct.

            !!! info

>                 This should be added in a PR as the last commit before a release, but check that the date matches, since these PRs sometimes are not merged on the day they are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                This should be added in a PR as the last commit before a release, but check that the date matches, since these PRs may not necessarily be merged on the same day they are created.
```

        - [ ] All authors are included and appropriately ordered.
        - [ ] All project keywords are listed, using quotes for multi-word tags.
        - [ ] The release date in both files is correct.

            !!! info
                This should be added in a PR as the last commit before a release, but check that the date matches, since these PRs sometimes are not merged on the day they are created.

        - [ ] Set version tag in [citation file identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8) to match the updated version. The commit hash of the version will be filled in *after* release.
    ```

=== "After Release"

    Only one step here is required for ***every release***: Add release commit hash to `CITATION.cff` [identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8).

    ```Markdown
    - [ ] Add *version-agnostic* DOI badge to `README`*.
        - See [Add a Zenodo DOI Badge](DOI-Generation.md#add-a-zenodo-doi-badge) for instructions.
    - [ ] Add PyPI badges to `README`*.
    - [ ] Add *version-agnostic* DOI to `CITATION.cff`*.

>     - [ ] ***Every release***: Add release commit hash to `CITATION.cff` [identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8).

Reviewer: Since we suggest these to be copy&pasted, wouldn't it be better to separate into two sections, one for first release only, one for subsequent new releases?

Otherwise, for non-first new releases, one would need to manually remove most of the check items that were just pasted.

Author: They're set up as tabs, like with the [citation CFF templates](https://imageomics.github.io/Collaborative-distributed-science-guide/wiki-guide/GitHub-Repo-Guide/#citation-templates).

<img width="800" height="505" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-05 at 6 59 55 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0df575da-bf49-4f40-b823-67945696c2e4" />

I should really add a PR preview for the site to make reviews easier.

Reviewer: I meant this _specifically_ (and _only_) for the section under the "After Release" tab. I did notice the `===` dividers, and there weren't further (nested? would this even work?) dividers for the "After Release" part.

Author: Ahh, I misunderstood. Thanks for clarifying. I could make another "After First Release" tab!

I've found the previews really helpful in other repos and had been thinking about it.

Author: Does it make sense to keep the note at the top? Should I link it to the other tab?
````
=== "After First Release"

    Only one step here is required for ***every release***: Add release commit hash to `CITATION.cff` [identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8).

    ```Markdown
    - [ ] Add *version-agnostic* DOI badge to `README`*.
        - See [Add a Zenodo DOI Badge](DOI-Generation.md#add-a-zenodo-doi-badge) for instructions.
    - [ ] Add PyPI badges to `README`*.
    - [ ] Add *version-agnostic* DOI to `CITATION.cff`*.
    - [ ] ***Every release***: Add release commit hash to `CITATION.cff` [identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8).
    ```

=== "After Release"

    ```Markdown
    - [ ] ***Every release***: Add release commit hash to `CITATION.cff` [identifiers](GitHub-Repo-Guide.md#__codelineno-1-8).
    ```
````

Author: Nested tabs do work--technically. Could potentially do dropdowns inside like with the [template page](https://imageomics.github.io/Collaborative-distributed-science-guide/wiki-guide/HF_DatasetCard_Template_mkdocs/), but maybe the four sections are good?

<img width="787" height="326" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-05 at 7 26 41 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/74bae34d-3eba-404d-bd4d-68a0115efa86" />

(edited to include a more practical screenshot)

Reviewer: Who would have thought! That said, I think you're right, four first-level tabs is all we need here.

And remove the `***Every release***:` part.
